Scenario 2
Imagine a server with the following specs:
● 4 times Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU E7-4830 v4 @ 2.00GHz
● 64GB of ram
● 2 TB HDD disk space
● 2 x 10Gbit/s nics
The server is used for SSL offloading and proxies around 25000 requests per second. Please
let us know which metrics are interesting to monitor in that specific case and how would you
do that? What are the challenges of monitoring this?

ANSWER:


Metrics Crucial to Monitor : 

The 2 important metrics to be monitored for this scenario are :
1) Server Metrics (General)
2) Application Metrics (Should also monitor request tracing)

1) Server Metrics:

The server metrics should include monitoring of the below components (for a specific time say 15 mins interval) which may affect the performance :
i) CPU details as :
CPU usage, Load on CPU
ii) Memory Used
iii) Disk Space Usage Details
iv) I/O writes and I/O reads
v) Network (TCP) and Network Traffic

To monitor the above metrics we can use tools like zabbix/Nagios XI etc. We should monitor these components with an interval of 10-15 mins. 
We should set a threshold value for each of these components and if the value is exceeding the given threshold then the tool should send an alert email.

2) Application Metrics
i) Need to monitor SSL certificate validate status.
ii) Alternatively we can also monitor request tracing that will give a picture of number of requests that are passing and failing. And set alerts on the failing requests.
We can use tools like DynaTrace/Promethus etc.

To monitor SSL certificate status you can use various tools like Grafana, SmartBear, Zabbix etc with which you can set alarms if the certificate is expired for secure proxies.


Challenges of Monitoring:

i. Set correct trigger warning value for avoiding and minimizing false alarms.
ii. The server performance should not affected by the metrics monitoring tool we are using. 
iii. Finding the most crucial mertics to monitor as there are multiple things to consider.
iv. Using the most effective solution for monitoring 25000 requests per second.

